---

title:  "Review: Saints of Salvation"
tags: [perso, books, review en]
---


"Saints of Salvation", the third and last book in the Salvation saga,
tells three intertwined stories. First, Hamilton presents a
post-apocalyptic world set on earth where humanity has to deal with
the consequences of the Olyix attack. Being isolated from the rest of
civilization, humanity has to adapt to the scarcity of resources and
the harshness of the new life on Earth. Hamilton paints a positive
view of humanity that struggles to reconstruct its society despite the
trauma recently suffered by the population.

Meanwhile, the so-called Saints execute their response to the Olyx
invasion attempting to make possible the deployment of a plan of
astronomical proportions. Cut from the rest of humanity, the Saints
are covert operatives coming to terms with sacrificing their lives to
inflict the most damage on the Olyix sanctuary and give humanity a
fighting chance generations later.

Finally, the crew of the Morgan far in future realize they will suffer
defeat against the Olyix if they remain a type-I Kardashev
civilization. However, the social and technological constraints of its
operations prevent the crew from making the hard decisions it needs to
make. Leadership and personal sacrifice will be required to enable the
crew to gain the technology and production capabilities necessary to
have a fighting chance against an enemy that appears to have conquered
the galaxy.

While the first book of the Salvation saga was reminiscent of Dan
Simmons' "Hyperyon", the third book of the saga, "Saints of Salvation"
is reminiscent of Charles Stross' "Accelerando". The three settings
act as view points before, during, and after a singularity that
redefines what it means to be human.

In his signature style, Hamilton weaves the three stories into an epic
that spans millennia and yet connects people generations apart. The
strength of Hamilton's writing is the ability to always up the ante by
cleverly re-combining the fictional technologies that were previous
set. An avid Hamilton reader could feel like he falls back on tropes
and technologies that seems to have permeated his career. However a
brilliant twist, the quality of the writing of action sequences, and
the hard-to-conceive scale of the operations keep the reader
relentlessly turning the next page to see what other amazing ideas
Hamilton has in stock.
