---

title:  "Review: Catherine: Full Body"
tags: [geek, en, video game]
---

I just finished playing "Catherine: full body" this week. And I have had
a lot of thoughts about that game. So I am going to write a review to
structure my thoughts. I wrote a few of those over the years, but I
have written one in a while. Which one was the last? _checking_ Next
Jump: Shmup Tactics? In 2018? Ok, that was a while back!

I play the game on the Nintendo Switch, I think it is the DLC included
release of the PS4 game, which itself was an extension of "Catherine"
on the PS3.

## Overview

This game is quite story driven. So I'll split my review in two parts,
a spoiler-free part first, and a probably longer part with spoiler
I'll mark them clearly. I have read very little about the game before
I got it. And I chose to read more about the game afterward to give a
more pure feedback of how I felt about it. Though, I have seen some
parts are controversial.

The game is a horror dating-simulator puzzle game. It seems to be set
in the world of Personna 3 and seem to share quite a bit of the
development team.

You play Vincent, an early 30s man who has been with his girlfriend
Katherine for quite some time. (They met first in high school; they
got together towards the end of college; it's been about 10 years.)
She wants to get married, Vincent is uncertain. That causes Vincent to
feel a lot of pressure, to drink a lot, to have nightmares. And on the
first day of the game, Vincent meets a cute promiscuous girl,
Catherine, who he sleeps with. (Yes, the girlfriend is Katherine, the
_mistress_ is Catherine, and a third girl who eventually comes is
Qatherine.)

Every night, Vincent has nightmares wheer he looks like a sheep, and
with other sheeps he is forced to climb gigantic wall by crafting a
path to the top while the world collapse below his feet. This plays as
a puzzle game where you find your path to the top of a wall by
rearranging blocks in the wall to find a path to the top.

Every day, Vincent tries to manage his relation with Katherine and
Catherine and figure out what he wants to do. Manage the expectation
of a long term girlfriend and the pressure that she feels from her
family and friends, manage the expectation of society on him, try to
reconcile the fact that he cheated on his girlfriend when he was
drunk, manage the fear of his nightmares. This plays as a dating sim
really, with pre recorded clips and playable scenes at a bar where you
talk to friends, patrons, and staff while answering phone calls and
text messages.

## Audience

The game is rated M, or whatever is 18+ in your region. It is a horror
game even though it is not designed to play on your fear, but the fear
of Vincent, it can get disturbing and gory at times. The game is
unapologethicaly sexual. While you do not get an explicit sex scene
(and thank god, it's awkward enough to play it with my wife watching
TV on the coach), there is no doubt of what is going on, and the game would
probably have been censored in some regions if the camera was placed
in any other way. And the game has to be this sexual for it to work.

I am not the prime target of the game. The game is obviously targetted
at mid 20s, early 30s men to get them to think and reflect about sex,
gender, long term relationships, sexual orientation, and pressure of
society. Men older than that probably have explored these questions
already, so it may not be as impactful.

I am not sure that teenagers should play this; not in the sex for teen
bad kind of sense, but more in the sense that I don't think the themes
and messages of the game would hit home. I remember recommending my
son waits until he is older to watch Oldboy (2003); not in the sex and
gore bad for teen kind of way. But more in the sense that to get the
emotional impact of the movie, you need to be emotionally really to parse it.

Women probably can learn from this game, and maybe get an experience
of what men feel around questions of aging, commitment, pressure. It
has things to say about the LGBTQ community. And I'll be interested to
see both women and trans view of the game.

## So is it a good game?

I am gonna go with yes. The story(ies) it tells is(are) interesting. I
am writing this review because I beat the game 2 days ago, and I am
still thinking about it. But, as a game, it can fall a little flat.

### Poor puzzle mechanics

My primary problem with the game is the puzzle mechanic. The
integration of the puzzle mechanics is just terrible in my
mind. Nothign you do out of the puzzle really impact what is happening
inside the puzzle, and nothing you do in the puzzle seem to be
impacting what is impacting outside the puzzle.

It doesn't matter if you try to be with Katherine or Catherine, the
puzzle play exactly the same. It does not matter how many points you
get in the puzzle, the dating sim plays exactly the same. Narratively,
having to overcome a gigantic wall that collapse under your feet while
being chased by your fear is great. But you have to do three of those
a night, and frankly it could have been two. Or one!

The puzzle is not good enough to be interesting as a puzzle. When I
replayed the game (to get different endings), I played in the easiest
mode to be able to skip the puzzles. It seems it is a feature that
they added in the "full body" edition because I guess they realized
the game was too slow.

### Meaningless choices

There is another problem that I realized mid way in my first
playthrough, which became **excrutiating** on my second
playthrough. For a game where you make choices that impact the
story, most of your choices do not impact the story.

Your choices and action impact the story in two ways. Your interaction
with side characters will impact their long term fate as well, but
they are the side show, not the primary story. The meat of the game is
that your actions towards Katherine, Catherine, and Qatherine and the
answers to morality questions throughout the game will impact what
your relationship status will be at the end of the game.

My problem with that is that it impacts your relationship status *at
the end of the game*. The game takes place in 9 days and whatever you
do, the cutscenes which drive the narrative are going to be exactly
the same (put a star on that for later remarks) for the first 7
days. You can be all lovey-dovey towards Katherine or be a complete
jerk towards her, the first 7 days will unfold the same.

The (original) game released in 2011 (full body in 2019), we knew how
to make branching story lines in 2011. Most of the cutscenes are
mostly in the rendering engine of the game, so it is not like the
developers would have to redraw many complex animations. The game
tells you to replay it to see how else it could have unfolded, but 75%
of the story is the same.

### Bad skips

The game spends a lot of time loading. You go answer a quetion before
the next level, the game loads statistics about the questions globally
(which is cool), but they don't change much, so loading them on a
second playthrough is kind of a waste of time. Then the narrator
introduces the next puzzle level and hurdles, which if you intend to
skip it is a waste of time. Then it loads the level, which you will
skip. Then it loads the next cut scene, which on a third play through
you probably want to skip because you've seen it twice already.

So on replaying the game, you spend a lot of time wishing you could
skip the pieces you don't care about. There could be a skip while
loading feature. This could be a config setting that removes the
global statistics on questions. There is autoplay in the levels, that
is good; what about autoplay at 3x speed?

### Story telling

Now you may think I didn't like the game. But actually I did like it a
lot. The story telling is good. I'll say more in the spoiler section
in a minute. But seeing a good (maybe great) game hindered by small
things is annoying.

## Spoilers ahead

If you haven't played the game, I think you probably should play it
before reading further. I'll just assume that you have played it.